---
layout: post
title: "Mobility-Aware Analysis of Millimeter Wave Communication Systems With Blockages"
subtitle: "Siyoung Choi, Jin-Ghoo Choi, and Saewoong Bahk"
date: 2020-4-13 00:00:00 -0400
background: ''
---

Millimeter wave (mmWave) communication enables high rate transmission, but its network performance may be degraded significantly due to blockages between the transmitter and receiver. There have been two approaches to overcome the blockage effect and enhance link reliability: multi-connectivity and Ultra Dense Network (UDN). Particularly, multi-connectivity under a UDN environment facilitates user-centric communication. It requires dynamic configuration of serving base station groups so that each user experiences high quality services. This paper models user mobility and mobility-aware performance in user-centric mmWave communication systems with multi-connectivity, and proposes a new analytical framework based on the stochastic geometry. To this end, we first derive compact mathematical expressions for state transitions and probabilities of various events that each user experiences. Then we investigate mobility-aware performance in terms of network overhead and downlink throughput. This helps us to understand network operation in depth, and impacts of network density and multi-connection capability on the probability of handover related events. Numerical results verify the accuracy of our analysis and illustrate the correlation between mobility-aware performance and user speed. Our findings provide useful insights into the design of user-centric mmWave communication systems.
[Link](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9064594)